The uterus is a hollow organ
located in a woman’s pelvis
between the bladder and rectum.
Fibroids are noncancerous
growths of cells from the muscular
layer of the uterine wall.
A fibroid’s location can affect
both symptoms and treatment.
Three primary types are
fibroids on the outside wall,
called subserous;
partly in the cavity
and partly in the wall,
called submucosal;
and penduculated fibroids,
which are connected to the uterus by a stalk.
Many women have single or multiple fibroids,
sometimes of different types.
They range in size from as
small as a pea
to larger than a cantaloupe.
Fibroids often cause no symptoms
and are often only discovered
because of a pelvic exam or
ultrasound for another reason.
Some women,
particularly those with submucosal fibroids,
experience prolonged,
heavy menstrual bleeding.
Subserous tumors sometimes
press on the bladder,
causing urinary symptoms
or on the rectum, causing constipation.
A fibroid pressing on the spinal nerves
can cause back or leg pain.
Fibroids can also cause
pelvic pain or pressure.
There are many treatment options for fibroids,
including watchful waiting,
medications, and surgery.